CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

## Setup

### Install Rust

It is recommended to install rust through [rustup](https://rustup.rs). System package managers often have outdated versions of Rust or don't include rustfmt/clippy.

### Install rustfmt and clippy

```sh
rustup component add rustfmt
rustup component add clippy
```

### External Dependencies

The rodio backend requires alsa development libraries on linux. These should be available through your package manager. No extra dependencies should be needed on macOS/Windows.

Other backends will need additional dependencies. Some are documented in the (readme)[https://github.com/Spotifyd/spotifyd/blob/master/README.md] and the (librespot repo)[https://github.com/librespot-org/librespot/blob/dev/CONTRIBUTING.md].

## Building and Running the project

To run spotifyd with the rodio backend run

```sh
cargo run --features rodio_backend --no-default-features  -- --backend rodio --no-daemon
```

See the readme for information on setting up a config file and what features are available.

## Contributing Code

Note that spotifyd uses `Cargo.lock` to track dependency versions. It shouldn't be changed unless you are intentionally bumping a dependency version.

Check your code with `rustfmt` and `clippy`.

```sh
cargo fmt -- --check
cargo clippy --no-default-features --features rodio_backend -- -D warnings
```

CI will run `clippy --all-targets --all-features -- -D warnings` but this requires having dependencies for all features installed.

Create a PR on github.

Commit message:

chore(git): add git pre-commit and setup script (#513)
The pre-commit hook ensures multiple things before commiting code:

1) All Rust code is properly formatted
2) All linting errors are fixed
3) All tests are passing
4) The project can be compiled inside of the local development env

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

## Setup

__Important:__ Make sure to install the provided git hooks by running `setup-dev-workspace.sh`! 

### Install Rust

It is recommended to install rust through [rustup](https://rustup.rs). System package managers often have outdated versions of Rust or don't include rustfmt/clippy.

### Install rustfmt and clippy

```sh
rustup component add rustfmt
rustup component add clippy
```

### External Dependencies

The rodio backend requires alsa development libraries on linux. These should be available through your package manager. No extra dependencies should be needed on macOS/Windows.

Other backends will need additional dependencies. Some are documented in the (readme)[https://github.com/Spotifyd/spotifyd/blob/master/README.md] and the (librespot repo)[https://github.com/librespot-org/librespot/blob/dev/CONTRIBUTING.md].

## Building and Running the project

To run spotifyd with the rodio backend run

```sh
cargo run --features rodio_backend --no-default-features  -- --backend rodio --no-daemon
```

See the readme for information on setting up a config file and what features are available.

## Contributing Code

Note that spotifyd uses `Cargo.lock` to track dependency versions. It shouldn't be changed unless you are intentionally bumping a dependency version.

Check your code with `rustfmt` and `clippy`.

```sh
cargo fmt -- --check
cargo clippy --no-default-features --features rodio_backend -- -D warnings
```

CI will run `clippy --all-targets --all-features -- -D warnings` but this requires having dependencies for all features installed.

Create a PR on github.
