# spotifyd(8)
A spotify playing daemon in the spirit of MPD.

## Features
Right now, spotifyd can search, add to a queue and play the queue
(randomly or in order). In the future, there'll be support for playlists.

## Build
Building is done with a single command:
```
make
```
As this software is not done yet, there's no install target. Do it
manually if you want to install it globally.
### dependencies
libspotify and alsa (as far as I know!).


## Connection
For now spotifyd only accepts conenctions on a unix socket
specified in config.h. The default is /tmp/spotifyd. For
testing purposes, one can connect to spotifyd with socat:
```
socat UNIX:/tmp/spotifyd -
```
This command lets you type commands to the server manually.

## Commands
The following commands are implemented in spotifyd. The same 
list can be generated by sending the command "HELP" to the sever:
* SEARCH str - Searches spotify for str.
* QLIST      - List content of the queue.
* SLIST      - List search results.
* QRAND      - Toggle queue randomness on/off.
* QADD n     - Add song n from search results to queue.
* QPLAY n    - Play song n in queue.

## There's a weird binary among the source files, why!?
Every application using libspotify requires an appkey.
However, spotify don't allow you to share it openly in plain text,
only compiled as a part of your program. As I want anyone to be 
able to build this program, I supply appkey.key, a binary version
of the appkey. You can feel free to inspect this binary, or request
your own appkey from spotify if you don't trust me.
